modules/ROOT/pages/managing-mule-servers-clusters-and-groups.adoc, before:

= Managing Mule Servers, Clusters, and Groups
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: mmc, clusters, server groups, debug, monitoring

This page describes how to:

* Restart or stop a Mule server or cluster in MMC
* Organize servers or clusters into groups

To learn how to register or unregister a server, see xref:setting-up-mmc-mule-esb-communications.adoc[Setting Up MMC-Mule Communications]. To learn how to monitor servers, including viewing operational and performance details of individual servers, see the relevant pages in xref:managing-with-mmc.adoc[Managing with MMC]. To learn how to create or disband clusters of Mule servers, see xref:3.4@creating-or-disbanding-a-cluster.adoc[Creating or Disbanding a Cluster].

== Assumptions

This document assumes that you are familiar with MMC and there should be at least one active Mule instance that you can control from your installed MMC.

== The Servers Tab

The *Servers* tab allows you to manage Mule server or cluster instances, including:

* Viewing a list of available servers or clusters
* Restarting or stopping any available servers or clusters
* Grouping or ungrouping servers or clusters
* Viewing and editing properties for servers or clusters

The *Servers* tab includes a left-hand navigation pane that lists <<Server Groups>>. Clicking on a group will cause the servers and clusters in that group to be displayed on the *Servers* tab. To display all servers or clusters, irrespective of the group they belong to, click *All.*

image::new-group.png[new_group]

To the right of the navigation pane is the list of servers and clusters that belong to the group selected in the navigation pane. In the image below, the left-hand pane indicates that *All* servers are selected; the right-hand list includes details for all available servers.

image::new-server-list.png[NEW-server_list]

The checkbox to the left allows you to select one or more servers. Next to the checkbox is a status indicator with two possible states:

* Green circle: Server is running.
* Red circle: Server is stopped or unavailable.

Above and to the right of the list are six buttons:

* *Add*: Add a server or cluster.
* *Remove*: Remove (unregister) the selected server(s), or disband the selected cluster(s).
* *Remove from Group*: Remove the selected server(s) or cluster(s) from a group.
* *Add to Cluster*: Add the selected server(s) to a cluster.
* *Control*: Restart or stop the selected server(s) or cluster(s).

To see details about a server or cluster, click on the server or cluster name. MMC will display the *Server Details* pane for the selected server, shown below.

image::server-details.png[]

For an explanation of the *Server Details* pane, see the relevant pages under xref:monitoring-a-server.adoc[Monitoring a Server].

== Restarting or Stopping a Server

To stop or restart a server, follow these steps:

. Click the checkbox next to the server status indicator.
. Click *Control Server*, then select the desired operation from the drop-down menu.

image::new-stop-restar-server.png[NEW-stop-restar_server]

[TIP]
You can select multiple servers in the same state to perform the same operation on them at once. For example, if there are several running servers in the list, you can select them all at once and click *Control* > *Restart* to restart them all.

[NOTE]
It is not possible to start a non-running Mule server from MMC.

== Server Groups

MMC allows you to organize your registered servers in groups. A group is simply a way of logically organizing servers under a name.

* You can add, delete, rename or modify groups as needed.
* A server can belong to one or more groups at once.
* When you delete a group, this action does not delete the servers that belong to that group.
* A group can also include clusters.

By default, MMC comes includes the following groups already created:

* Development
* Production
* Staging
* Test

The groups are empty by default. Any Mule servers that you register will not be automatically assigned to a group.

To work with server groups, go to the *Servers* tab. The navigation pane on the left lists the available groups and the number of servers that belong to each group, if any.

[TIP]
When working with groups, you can add or remove clusters to or from a group, just like with servers.

=== Creating, Renaming, or Deleting Groups

To create a group, first go to the *Servers* tab, then click *New Group* in the left navigation pane. Enter a name for the group, then click *OK*.

image::new-group.png[new_group]

To rename a group, select it in the left navigation pane, then click *Rename*. MMC will prompt you for the new name for the group.

To delete a group, select it in the left navigation pane, then click *Delete*. MMC will prompt you to confirm the operation.

=== Adding or Removing Servers to or from a Group

To add a server to a group, follow the steps below.

. Click *All* in the groups pane to obtain a list of all available servers.
. Select the desired server by clicking the checkbox to the right of the server name.
. Click *Add to Group*. MMC will display a menu with the available groups.
. Select the desired group from the menu.

To remove a server from a group, perform the same steps outlined above, selecting *Remove from Group* in Step 3.

[TIP]
Removing a cluster or server from a group does not delete the cluster or server. Likewise, removing a group does not delete the cluster or servers included in that group.

== See Also

* Learn how to create and manage xref:creating-or-disbanding-a-cluster.adoc[High Availability (HA) clusters] of Mule servers.
* Learn how to xref:deploying-applications.adoc[deploy applications] to Mule servers.
* Learn how to xref:monitoring-a-server.adoc[monitoring an individual server] with MMC.

Commit message:

import files for component mule-management-console@3.7

modules/ROOT/pages/managing-mule-servers-clusters-and-groups.adoc, after:

= Managing Mule Servers, Clusters, and Groups
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: mmc, clusters, server groups, debug, monitoring

This page describes how to:

* Restart or stop a Mule server or cluster in MMC
* Organize servers or clusters into groups

To learn how to register or unregister a server, see xref:setting-up-mmc-mule-esb-communications.adoc[Setting Up MMC-Mule ESB Communications]. To learn how to monitor servers, including viewing operational and performance details of individual servers, see the relevant pages in xref:managing-with-mmc.adoc[Managing with MMC]. To learn how to create or disband clusters of Mule servers, see xref:creating-or-disbanding-a-cluster.adoc[Creating or Disbanding a Cluster].

== Assumptions

This document assumes that you are familiar with the basic xref:architecture-of-the-mule-management-console.adoc[Architecture of the Mule Management Console], and that you have installed the xref:installing-the-production-version-of-mmc.adoc[production] version of MMC. Also, ideally there should be at least one active Mule instance that you can control from your installed MMC.

== The Servers Tab

The *Servers* tab allows you to manage Mule server or cluster instances, including:

* Viewing a list of available servers or clusters
* Restarting or stopping any available servers or clusters
* Grouping or ungrouping servers or clusters
* Viewing and editing properties for servers or clusters

The *Servers* tab includes a left-hand navigation pane that lists <<Server Groups>>. Clicking on a group will cause the servers and clusters in that group to be displayed on the *Servers* tab. To display all servers or clusters, irrespective of the group they belong to, click *All.*

image::new-group.png[new_group]

To the right of the navigation pane is the list of servers and clusters that belong to the group selected in the navigation pane. In the image below, the left-hand pane indicates that *All* servers are selected; the right-hand list includes details for all available servers.

image::new-server-list.png[NEW-server_list]

The checkbox to the left allows you to select one or more servers. Next to the checkbox is a status indicator with two possible states:

* Green circle: Server is running.
* Red circle: Server is stopped or unavailable.

Above and to the right of the list are six buttons:

* *Add*: Add a server or cluster.
* *Remove*: Remove (unregister) the selected server(s), or disband the selected cluster(s).
* *Remove from Group*: Remove the selected server(s) or cluster(s) from a group.
* *Add to Cluster*: Add the selected server(s) to a cluster.
* *Control*: Restart or stop the selected server(s) or cluster(s).

To see details about a server or cluster, click on the server or cluster name. MMC will display the *Server Details* pane for the selected server, shown below.

image::server-details.png[]

For an explanation of the *Server Details* pane, see the relevant pages under xref:monitoring-a-server.adoc[Monitoring a Server].

== Restarting or Stopping a Server

To stop or restart a server, follow these steps:

. Click the checkbox next to the server status indicator.
. Click *Control Server*, then select the desired operation from the drop-down menu.

image::new-stop-restar-server.png[NEW-stop-restar_server]

[TIP]
You can select multiple servers in the same state to perform the same operation on them at once. For example, if there are several running servers in the list, you can select them all at once and click *Control* > *Restart* to restart them all.

[NOTE]
It is not possible to start a non-running Mule server from MMC.

== Server Groups

MMC allows you to organize your registered servers in groups. A group is simply a way of logically organizing servers under a name.

* You can add, delete, rename or modify groups as needed.
* A server can belong to one or more groups at once.
* When you delete a group, this action does not delete the servers that belong to that group.
* A group can also include clusters.

By default, MMC comes includes the following groups already created:

* Development
* Production
* Staging
* Test

The groups are empty by default. Any Mule servers that you register will not be automatically assigned to a group.

To work with server groups, go to the *Servers* tab. The navigation pane on the left lists the available groups and the number of servers that belong to each group, if any.

[TIP]
When working with groups, you can add or remove clusters to or from a group, just like with servers.

=== Creating, Renaming, or Deleting Groups

To create a group, first go to the *Servers* tab, then click *New Group* in the left navigation pane. Enter a name for the group, then click *OK*.

image::new-group.png[new_group]

To rename a group, select it in the left navigation pane, then click *Rename*. MMC will prompt you for the new name for the group.

To delete a group, select it in the left navigation pane, then click *Delete*. MMC will prompt you to confirm the operation.

=== Adding or Removing Servers to or from a Group

To add a server to a group, follow the steps below.

. Click *All* in the groups pane to obtain a list of all available servers.
. Select the desired server by clicking the checkbox to the right of the server name.
. Click *Add to Group*. MMC will display a menu with the available groups.
. Select the desired group from the menu.

To remove a server from a group, perform the same steps outlined above, selecting *Remove from Group* in Step 3.

[TIP]
Removing a cluster or server from a group does not delete the cluster or server. Likewise, removing a group does not delete the cluster or servers included in that group.

== See Also

* Learn how to create and manage xref:creating-or-disbanding-a-cluster.adoc[High Availability (HA) clusters] of Mule servers.
* Learn how to xref:deploying-applications.adoc[deploy applications] to Mule servers.
* Learn how to xref:monitoring-a-server.adoc[monitoring an individual server] with MMC.
